# Coding instructions

This folder contains a CSV file for each open question in our survey.
Each response is initially provided with a unique identifier.
During the coding process, the rows are duplicated, and marked with separate labels.
These labels are generated by the coders on the basis of their observations.
This process is also known as *inductive coding*.

## Steps
We start out with a general table (here is the start of *challenges.csv*:

| identifier  | comment | code |
|-------------|---------|------|
| R_2uIYMUOPADUs0Gp | Scale and resources | Original comment |
| R_3EVTcFVWkcADmAn |	It's time consuming and some times to cover all types of errors is very hard. | Original comment |
| ... |	... | |

The steps are then as follows:

1. Read through all the comments, to familiarise yourself with the data.
2. Then identify the different component answers provided in each comment. For example, comment `R_2uIYMUOPADUs0Gp` provides two component answers: "scale" and "resources."
3. Duplicate the row to end up with one row (original comment) + as many rows as needed to separately code each component answer. Codes can be whatever you like, as long as they capture the essence of the answer.
4. Once you are done with all comments, look over the coded component answers, and see if any codes could be merged. Merge only if the codes seem equivalent. If they relate to separate concerns, but they belong to the same theme, we will combine them at a later stage.
5. Write down a summary of your observations: which codes can be grouped together? Do you think they are representative of bigger issues/themes? How do the codes and themes relate to our research question?

After coding, the table could look as follows:

| identifier  | comment                                                      | code             |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| R_2uIYMUOPADUs0Gp | Scale and resources                                          | Original comment |
| R_2uIYMUOPADUs0Gp | Scale                                                        | Scale            |
| R_2uIYMUOPADUs0Gp | Resources                                                    | Resources        |
| R_3EVTcFVWkcADmAn | It's time consuming and some times to cover all types of errors is very hard. | Original comment |
| R_3EVTcFVWkcADmAn | It's time consuming                                          | Time             |
| R_3EVTcFVWkcADmAn | Some times to cover all types of errors is very hard.        | Coverage         |

NB. The original comment should remain in the document, so that it's easy to check whether you've missed anything.

After coding the comments, you could then think of ways to connect the codes. For example, you might think time is just a further specification of the more general "Resources" issue that was highlighted:

* Scale

* Resources

  - Time

  - ...other resources (e.g. money, collaborators, if these come up in other comments)

* Coverage

Note that this is a cyclic process. Relating the codes to each other might cause you to reconsider your categorisation scheme. That's OK! This is part of the process of interpreting the qualitative responses.

Eventually, you could summarise the challenges in a (short) paragraph.
